This interactive visualization makes it possible to compare architects' travels in terms of both destinations visited and time spent in these places.
Note that all 130 destinations are still represented, albeit with a different principle than their geographical coordinates.
When viewers type a location in the search box, only the relevant travel segments are activated.
For example, when typing Florence, only the orange bars pertaining to travel to Florence for all of the architects will appear.
Moreover, hovering over the bars displays precise details for each stay in Florence.
For example, for John Talman, viewers will see his first stay in Florence dated November 18, 1709 to April 1710;
the second, January 1722; and the third, July to October 1715.
The chart uses thirteen different colors with each of the 130 locations assigned to one of them.
Ten of these colors represent the 10 independent states into which 18th-century Italy was divided.
By dividing our travel locations into colors pertaining to different 18th-century Italian states,
we circumvent the issue of the fluidity of certain regional boundaries.
For six of the states, we created a darker shade to indicate the capital city.
The same darker shade is used for the category of vicinity.
This avoids distorting the reality that most Grand Tourists had long stays in the main Italian cities from which they completed and recorded day trips to local
destinations.
Three additional colors stand for categories that are not political but crucial for understanding travel patterns in the world of the Grand Tour.
First, we assigned beige to all instances of travel where we know the tourist was in Italy with no further specification of visited places, such as for most of John
Groves' travels.
Secondly, we assigned grey to all the destinations beyond the Italian peninsula.
Sicily received its own category colored in brown.
The island was politically part of the kingdom of Naples for most but not all of the century, yet stood separate in the habits and imaginations of 18th-century
travelers.
Several measures of time are included in the time chart of travelers, showing both the place and date of each segment of travel.
On the left side of the chart, the architects' names are lined up from top to bottom in the chronological order under which their travels occurred.
At the beginning of each travel bar is the first year of travel.
For John Talman, this date is the year 1699, and for Charles Tatham, the last architect traveling in the century, the date is 1794.
We listed decades to the left of the names in a column, placing them next to the first traveler in that decade.
This helps readily identify at which point in the century a traveler is located and the density of travelers per decade.
Therefore, viewers can discern immediately that the 1750s and 1760s were the two most traveled periods.
At the bottom of the visualization is a bar marking intervals of 12. These are to be understood only as approximations of months.
We use the month as the minimum measure. That is, whether one stay amounted to a day or a month, it would take up the same portion of the bar.
Here, there is inevitably a distortion.
For example, we know that Reveley spent the end of February to the end of March touring Puglia, but because his detailed records list as many as fourteen destinations,
his trip appears longer than a year.
Parentheses following the traveler's name contain the numbers of places visited, and a dot following the traveler's name indicates that the traveler took multiple
trips to Italy.
When viewers click on any name, they deactivate the relevant bar.
It's easier to compare the two Mylne Brothers trips after deselecting the trips of Byres, Newborough, and Hadfield.
Finally, when clicking on the Highlight Amateur box, the twelve amateur architects appear in relief, bolded, and distinguished from the others so that viewers can
appreciate at once how amateur trips differed from professional in terms of places visited.
The amateurs travels are multi-color, rainbow-like, reflecting that their journeys were more similar to typical Grand Tourists with the resources to visit
multiple places for shorter times.
The case of someone like Soane, who has a more rainbow-like travel pattern, reflects in turn that he travels further than Rome in accompanying one of his wealthy
patrons, who could sponsor his more varied and costly journey.
This is an example of visual argument, what we're able to discover by visualizing the data.
[Silence]